TF-9289 document priority varsets (#458)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index.mdx

Terraform Cloud prioritizes and overwrites conflicting variables according to the following precedence:

### 1. Priority Global Variable Sets

If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a global variable set have precedence over all other variables with the same key.

> ### 2. Priority Project Variable Sets

Author: ```suggestion
### 2. Priority Project-Scoped Variable Sets
```

If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a priority project-scoped variable set have precedence over variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.

> ### 3. Priority Workspace Variable Sets

Author: ```suggestion
### 3. Priority Workspace-Scoped Variable Sets
```

> ### 1. Priority Global Variable Sets
> 
> If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a global variable set have precedence over all other variables with the same key.
> 
> ### 2. Priority Project-Scoped Variable Sets
> 
> If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a priority project-scoped variable set have precedence over variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.
> 
> ### 3. Priority Workspace-Scoped Variable Sets
> 
> If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a priority workspace-scoped variable set have precedence over variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Priority Global Variable Sets

If [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a global variable set have precedence over all other variables with the same key.

### 2. Priority Project-Scoped Variable Sets

If [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a priority project-scoped variable set have precedence over variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.

### 3. Priority Workspace-Scoped Variable Sets

If [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a priority workspace-scoped variable set have precedence over variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.
```

For example, if you apply `A_Variable_Set` and `B_Variable_Set` to the same project, Terraform Cloud uses any conflicting variables from `A_Variable_Set`. This is the case regardless of which variable set has been edited most recently. Terraform Cloud only considers the lexical ordering of variable set names when determining precedence.

If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a project variable set have precedence over project and workspace scoped variable sets, workspace applied, and run applied variables with the same key.

### 6. Global Variable Sets

Workspace and project-scoped variable sets always take precedence over global variable sets that are applied to all workspaces within an organization. Terraform does not allow global variable sets to contain variables with the same key, so they cannot conflict.

> If prioritized [prioritized](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/variables/index#precedence-with-priority-variable-sets), variables in a global variable set have precedence over all other variables with the same key.

Reviewer: because of the ordering in the list, i think adding the prioritized note in the addendum actually makes this more confusing. sorry if i wasn't clear on that one! i think updating this entire list to match the diagram change you made and reflect what sarah wrote [here](https://hashicorp.slack.com/archives/C05RVL6NVCK/p1698174139268749?thread_ts=1698167987.050539&cid=C05RVL6NVCK) would be clearest.

- **C_Variable_Set:** `KEY2`. For this run, `KEY2` equals `c`. This is a global variable set with no overwritten values.

![An example scenario demonstrating variable precedence in Terraform Cloud](/img/docs/variable-precedence-example.png)

> ## Precedence with Priority Variable Sets

Author: @ritsok & @shernandez5 I tried combining both of your suggestions and rewrote this section to this:

> You can select to prioritize all values of the variables in a variable set.
> When a variable set is priority, the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.
> 
> For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over any variables with the same key in a priority project or workspace scoped variable set. Variables in a priority variable set will take precedence over any variables with the same key set through the CLI on a run.
> 
> If two priority variable sets with the same scope include the same variable key, Terraform Cloud will determine precedence by the alphabetical order of the variable sets' names.
> 
> While a priority variable set can enforce that terraform variables use designated values, it does not guarantee that the variable is used in configuration. It is still possible for a user to directly modify the Terraform configuration and remove usage of a variable and replace it with a hard coded value. If you are looking for stricter enforcement than this, we recommend using policy checks or run tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you mark a variable set as `priority`, all of its values take precedence over any other variables with the same key, even if they have a more specific scope. For example, variables in a priority global variable set take precedence over same-key variables in a priority project- or workspace-scoped variable set. Refer to the [precedence](#precedence) section above for the complete precedence hierarchy.

If two priority variable sets with the same scope include the same variable key, Terraform Cloud will determine precedence by the alphabetical order of the variable sets' names.

While a priority variable set can enforce specific variable values, it does not guarantee that the configuration actually references that variable instead of hardcoding a value. For stricter enforcement mechanisms, we recommend using policy checks or run tasks.
```

- **C_Variable_Set:** `KEY2`. For this run, `KEY2` equals `c`. This is a global variable set with no overwritten values.

![An example scenario demonstrating variable precedence in Terraform Cloud](/img/docs/variable-precedence-example.png)

> 

Author: First question:
I didn't want to make the already existing precedence docs even more complicated... and was thinking to keep the two separate... since priority variable sets are for solving a specific kind of problem?

Second question:
Any varset can be set as priority, not just global -- but a global priority varset will win out over any other priority varset set with regards to precedence.

Second question:
I updated line 159 to read "all" let me know what you think!

> 

Author: diagram updated -- resolving thread

## Precedence with Priority Variable Sets

> You can select to prioritize the values of variables in a variable set.

Author: ```suggestion
You can select to prioritize the all values of the variables in a variable set.
```

> You can select to prioritize the values of variables in a variable set.
> When a variable set is prioritized the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.
> 
> * A project scope is more specific than a global scope.
> * A workspace variable set scope is more specific than a project scope.
> * A workspace variable scope is more specific than a workspace variable set scope.
> * A variable set on the command line a more specific scope than a workspace variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values in a priority variable set overwrite any other variables with the same key. 
```

it seems like there are no exceptions to this, so i wonder if we can just say "they overwrite everything"? 

if we update the precedence list above, i think we can skip talking about scope specificity here to avoid redundancy

Author: A user could in theory mark multiple variable sets as priority and the precedence that would those varsets would follow is the above.

Perhaps a compromise is "The values in a priority variable set overwrite any other variables with the same key set with a more specific scope". ?

Reviewer 2: I think the only thing to note here is that a priority variable set configured to apply to only some projects would be overwritten by a priority variable set configured globally, so maybe we still. need to indicate that there is still some form of precedence

> Therefore a prioritized global variable set variable takes precedence over even a variable set by a command line argument.
> 
> A variable from a prioritized global variable set takes precedence over any variables set by any of the methods above except for
> those with values set directly in the terraform configuration code itself.
> 
> If two prioritized variable sets include the same variable key, precedence is determined by the alphabetical order of the variable sets' names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If two priority variable sets include the same variable key, Terraform Cloud will determine precedence by the alphabetical order of the variable sets' names.
```

> The only variable that a prioritized variable set variable cannot overwrite is one with a value set directly in the terraform

Reviewer: could you clarify how this would work/what to check for?

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:

While a priority variable set can enforce that terraform variables use designated values, it does not guarantee that the variable is used in configuration. It is still possible for a user to directly modify the Terraform configuration and remove usage of a variable and replace it with a hard coded value. If you are looking for stricter enforcement than this, we recommend using policy checks or run tasks.

- **C_Variable_Set:** `KEY2`. For this run, `KEY2` equals `c`. This is a global variable set with no overwritten values.

![An example scenario demonstrating variable precedence in Terraform Cloud](/img/docs/variable-precedence-example.png)

## Precedence with Priority Variable Sets

> You can select to prioritize the values of variables in a variable set in the UI and or mark a variable set as `priority: true`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can select to prioritize the values of variables in a variable set.
```

> When a variable set is prioritized the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a _more specific_ scope.

Author: ```suggestion
When a variable set is prioritized the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.
```

* A project scope is more specific than a global scope.
* A workspace variable set scope is more specific than a project scope.
* A workspace variable scope is more specific than a workspace variable set scope.
* A variable set on the command line a more specific scope than a workspace variable.

Therefore a prioritized global variable set variable takes precedence over even a variable set by a command line argument.

A variable from a prioritized global variable set takes precedence over any variables set by any of the methods above except for

> those set directly in the terraform configuration code itself.

Author: ```suggestion
those with values set directly in the terraform configuration code itself.
```

- **C_Variable_Set:** `KEY2`. For this run, `KEY2` equals `c`. This is a global variable set with no overwritten values.

![An example scenario demonstrating variable precedence in Terraform Cloud](/img/docs/variable-precedence-example.png)

## Precedence with Priority Variable Sets

You can select to prioritize all values of the variables in a variable set.
When a variable set is priority, the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.

> For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over any variables with the same key in a priority project or workspace scoped variable set. Variables in a priority variable set will take precedence over any variables with the same key set through the CLI on a run.

Reviewer: do we need the CLI reference in the last sentence here? as discussed in thread, i think it's clearer to say it overrides all.

> For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over any variables with the same key in a priority project or workspace scoped variable set. Variables in a priority variable set will take precedence over any variables with the same key set through the CLI on a run.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over all variables with the same key in a priority project or workspace scoped variable set. Variables in a priority variable set will take precedence over any variables with the same key set through the CLI on a run.
```

- **C_Variable_Set:** `KEY2`. For this run, `KEY2` equals `c`. This is a global variable set with no overwritten values.

![An example scenario demonstrating variable precedence in Terraform Cloud](/img/docs/variable-precedence-example.png)

## Precedence with Priority Variable Sets

You can select to prioritize all values of the variables in a variable set.
When a variable set is priority, the values take precedence over any variables with the same key set at a more specific scope.

> For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over all variables with the same key in a priority project or workspace scoped variable set. Variables in a priority variable set will take precedence over any variables with the same key set through the CLI on a run.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, variables in a priority global variable set would take precedence over all variables with the same key.
```
